Roles and Responsibilities of Employee Dataset Project:
Executed efficient data retrieval processes from PostgreSQL database and optimizing data extraction for large datasets.
Utilized Python's psycopg2 library to establish and manage connections to PostgreSQL databases, automating data retrieval tasks for timely and accurate reporting.
Developed and maintained data visualization solutions using Power BI, transforming raw data into insightful dashboards and reports.
Demonstrated proficiency in data visualization libraries such as seaborn and matplotlib to create compelling charts, graphs, and plots in Python.

* I was unable to upload Power BI files because it having large size instead of that i have uploaded screen shot of Power BI files of their tasks.

File named Tasks: It is a text document file in which it has a written tasks which i need to perform.
File named Check for data inconsistency(1): It having a screen shot of 1st answer of Tasks. I have written a SQL Code in PostgreSQL to check whether Foreign key relationship are valid for table title.
File named Check for data inconsistency(2): It having a screen shot of 1st answer of Tasks. I have written a SQL Code in PostgreSQL to check whether if data in related tables is consistent, ensuring that the department_id in the `department
_manager table corresponds to a valid department in the department` table.
File named 2nd Ans: It having a screen shot of 2nd answer of tasks.I have written a SQL Code in PostgreSQL to check Which department has the highest average salary of active employees.
File named 2nd Ans(PBI): It will show a screenshot of Power BI file of 2nd answer of tasks.In this, I have created a DAX measure in which it will calculate the average salary of active employees. Then, I selected Stacked column chart to visualize the data of dept_name in x-axis and Average Salary in y-axis.
File named 3rd Ans: It has a screen shot of 3rd answer of tasks. I have written SQL code in PostgreSQL to check Which title has the highest avg salary of active employees.
File named 3rd Ans(PBI): It will show a screenshot of Power BI file of 3rd Answer of tasks. In this, I have created a DAX measure to calculate the Average salary Active and Highest Avg Salary Title Active of active employees. Then, I selected Stacked column chart to visualize the data of title in x-aixs and Average Salary Active in y-axis.
File named 4th Ans: It has a screen shot of 4th answer of tasks. I have written SQL code in PostgreSQL to display Distribution of salary across titles. 
File named 4th Ans(PBI): It will show a screenshot of Power BI file of 4th Answer of tasks. In this, I have selected Stacked column chart to visualize the data of title in x-axis and sum of amount(salary) in y-axis.
File named 5th Ans: It has a screen shot of 5th answer of tasks. I have written SQL code in PostgreSQL to display Distribution of salary across departments.
File name 5th Ans(PBI): It will show a screenshot of Power BI file of 5th Answer of tasks. In this,  I have selected Stacked column chart to visualize the data of dept_name in x-axis and sum of amount(salary) in y-axis.
File named 6th Ans(1): It has a screen shot of 6th answer of tasks. I have written SQL code in PostgreSQL to display How many active managers in each department.
File named 6th Ans(2): It has a screen shot of 6th answer of tasks. I have written SQL code in PostgreSQL to display Is there any department with no manager.
File name 7th Ans(PBI): It will show a screenshot of Power BI file of 7th Answer of tasks. In this,  I have selected Pie Chart to show Composition of titles department-wise. In this, I have created DAX measure title count to count the title. For visualizing the data, I have selected dept_name in Legend and title count in values.
File name 8th Ans(PBI): It will show a screenshot of Power BI file of 8th Answer of tasks. In this, I have selected Pie chart to show Composition of departments title-wise. In this, I have created DAX measure department count to count the department. For visualizing the data, I have selected title in Legend and department count in y-axis.
File named 9th Ans: It has a screen shot of 9th answer of tasks. I have written SQL code in PostgreSQL to display Salaries of active department managers. Which department's manager who is active earns the most.
File name 9th Ans(PBI): It will show a screenshot of Power BI file of 9th Answer of tasks. In this, I have selected Stacked column chart to visualize the data. In this, I have created DAX measure to calculate Total Salary,Is Manager Active and Filtered Total Salary and then i have selected dept_name in x-axis and Filtered Total Salary in y-axis.
File named 10th Ans: It has a screen shot of 10th answer of tasks. I have written SQL code in PostgreSQL to display the titles of active department managers and to check whether their are manager only. 
File named 11th Ans: It has a screen shot of 11th answer of tasks. I have written SQL code in PostgreSQL to display Past history of salaries of managers across department (yearly).
File name 11th Ans(PBI): It will show a screenshot of Power BI file of 11th Answer of tasks. In this, I have selected Stacked column chart. Then, I have created Dax measures to calculate the Total Salary and Yearly Salary. Then, I have selected dept_name in x-axis and Yealry Salary in y-axis.
File named 13th Ans: It has a screen shot of 13th answer of tasks. I have written SQL code in PostgreSQL to display Average number of years employees work in the company before leaving (title wise).
File named 14th Ans: It has a screen shot of 14th answer of tasks. I have written SQL code in PostgreSQL to display Average number of years employees work in the company before leaving (Dept wise).
File named 12th Ans, 13th Ans, 14th Ans and 15th Ans: It is a PY file. In this file i have used psycopg2 for connecting to database and used python libraries for visualizing the data. For 12th ans, You can check the code in 12th in this file and These code will visualize the data for Distribution of salaries of active employees working for more than 10 years vs 4 years vs 1 year. For 13 ans, You can check the code in 13th in this file and These code will will visualize the data for Average number of years employees work in the company before leaving (title wise). For 14 Ans, You can check the code in 14th in this file and These code will visualize the data for Average number of years employees work in the company before leaving (Dept wise). For 15 Ans, You can check the code in 15th in this file and These code will visualize the data for Median annual salary increment department wise.

